I spend the most time here, in this office,
because I have plenty of
activities to develop
in relation with my job at the hospital,
with the university sessions
and here it’s where I have my computer.
It is not the ideal area for me,
because ideal for me would be the attic
because it allows more isolation.
It is, therefore, an intermediate solution.
I think it is positive
and it’s important to balance it and it is balanced.
It grants me a bit of isolation,
but at the same time it doesn’t turn me into an eremite,
which is what would happen
if I had my office in the attic.
In relation to the integration of this work space,
of this extension of
my workplaces within the house,
I think there’s no other option
but to see it naturally.
However this prolongation
doesn’t invade family life,
and this is very important.
The rupture between space and time
is not possible to the letter in
professions like mine,
and I have to adapt with flexibility
the interaction between the two spheres.
Then, this space allows me
to be here at midnight
or one in the morning,
sending emails and answering
questions that I receive,
marking works.
It gives me that, continuity.
And at the same time it allows me
to be within reach,
so that if I’m requested in the kitchen
to do something, or if I have to
walk the housepet,
or go to the living room
to say something, something that
I might just read in my computer...then
I’m close at hand,
so the transit here is quite easy.
Then, it isolates me less
than in the attic.
If I were in the attic
I couldn’t have that interaction.
There’s a high chance that, if I had to redesign,
to start again this project which
in part I already found it like this,
something I would leave out
would be the basement.
I come here rarely,
I spend a time of my life, many years,
working on a second basement, always with artificial light.
Now, when I’m working on the examination rooms, I do it
in a system of artificial light
because there are no windows.
Then, I don’t feel like coming down here,
where I have to depend on artificial light.
I think that’s one of the
motivations or explanations
to the poor attachment I feel
to this area of the house.
The house, or the external structure of
the place one inhabits,
shouldn’t if possible inform
the life of the human being.
It shouldn't.
Rather the opposite, the human being is
what gives life to the place being inhabited, right?
But it is true that the material conditions generate
totally different visions.
For the average humans,
who are always on the move,
home is the place to rest,
as it was always said.
The rest of the warrior is his home.
Then, it’s important that the house has spaces
which allow a total rupture with
the hustle and bustle,
with the toil of work’s everyday nature.
So a place like this,
which grants you such special climatic
and chromatic conditions,
it’s my favourite place.
It is also a personal view,
but I think most people would share it,
maybe it’s just common sense.
There are many memories, a lot.
But offhand, besides the most recent,
in the distance I remember,
essentially due to it’s human component,
that this was the refuge
of your grandfather last years,
where he would spend his mornings sitting on
his wheelchair, sunbathing...
and probably listening
and seeing what we do now,
with slight hints in the changes of the trees.
And I think that those two,
three years during which he was here
sunbathing on his wheelchair,
already justify this space, they give it meaning.
Because I think he was a person
in a situation of total vulnerability,
to whom this space gave something.
It granted him peace, calm and gifted him
quality of life during his last years.
I think this, which comes offhand,
justifies this space.
This space has already fulfilled
its function within those three years.
But, well...the reasons are
usually different, because
this kitchen space, actually this kitchen space,
if this house
was a loft, then it would be
a very important corner.
In this case it is a comfortable space,
with enough spaciousness for us to live,
to eat, to watch the news while
we eat, as well as to have
a conversation after the meal.
And besides that, it allows each one
to develop different actions, some cooking, some helping.
And it also has another component, and that is
that it has the second TV of the house,
which is more or less within the routinary activity,
and therefore whoever doesn’t want to
watch TV in the living room
can come here to the kitchen.
So I think in this sense it allows
a quite diverse activity flow.
And I believe I am the one who spends
less time here, because I only come here to eat,
but since I don’t fancy the culinary part,
so...
I am talking...
I am talking about the culinary part.
Culinary means the cooking part.
That's why...
That is the culinary part. The culinary…
That’s why I have said that I only,
I am the one that spends less time here because I come
essentially to eat, to eat.
That’s the reason I say,
I spend less time in the kitchen,
for that reason, because I don’t have
any specific activity other than eating.
Well, this is an advantage in a way.
This is like everything in life,
it has a positive side.
Positive in the sense that it means
that we have enough spaciousness and space
as to be each of us doing
whatever we want to do. So...
So, for this reason it is a space of...
a meeting point in english, it is a meeting point.
It is a meeting point,
always a meeting point, right?
Because the house has enough
rooms for each of us to...
That's it.
Indeed, indeed.
But well, from a realistic point of view,
the functions of this kitchen are
those of a meeting point.
A meeting point in a multi-space
as this house,
a periodic meeting point during
the course of the day.
How long are you living here?
Here we are living 22 years and...
6 months exactly.